>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 2: ISIS
CLAIMS RESPONSIBILITY FOR A
TERRORIST ATTACK IN BANGLADESH
THAT HAS KILLED 20 PEOPLE WHO
WERE HELD HOSTAGE.
IMMIGRANTS IN THE AMERICAN
HEARTLAND, KEEPING RURAL
BUSINESSES AFLOAT.
>> WITHOUT THE KAREN PEOPLE, WE
PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
RUN THE TURKEY PLANT.
>> Reporter: WHY NOT?
>> PEOPLE JUST DON'T WANT TO
MOVE TO RURAL AMERICA.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THE ARTIST
CHRISTO, MAKING IT POSSIBLE FOR
VISITORS TO THIS ITALIAN LAKE TO
WALK ON WATER.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WINNER ELIE
WIESEL HAS DIED.
BORN IN ROMANIA, WIESEL WAS A
HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR WHO WROTE
ELOQUENTLY ABOUT THE GENOCIDE
CARRIED OUT BY NAZI GERMANY THAT
CLAIMED THE LIVES OF SIX MILLION
JEWS IN EUROPE DURING WORLD WAR
II.
HIS BOOKS, SUCH AS "NIGHT,"
"DAWN" AND "DAY"-- BASED ON HIS
OWN EXPERIENCE IN THE AUSCHWITZ,
POLAND, CONCENTRATION CAMP--
EDUCATED MILLIONS ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED.
HIS PARENTS AND YOUNGER SISTER
DIED IN THE CAMPS.
AFTER THE WAR, A HUMANITARIAN
ORGANIZATION RESETTLED WIESEL
AND OTHER YOUNG SURVIVORS IN
FRANCE, WHERE HE LATER REUNITED
WITH TWO OLDER SISTERS WHO ALSO
SURVIVED THE WAR.
WIESEL WENT ON WITH HIS LIFE,
BECAME A JOURNALIST, MOVED TO
NEW YORK, OBTAINED U.S.
CITIZENSHIP, MARRIED A FELLOW
HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR AND HAD A
SON.
BUT HE NEVER FORGOT AND TRIED TO
KEEP THE MEMORY OF THOSE WHO
PERISHED ALIVE.
HE AUTHORED ALMOST 60 BOOKS AND
TAUGHT AT SEVERAL U.S.
UNIVERSITIES, SPENDING DECADES
TEACHING TOLERANCE, SPEAKING OUT
AGAINST HATRED AND RACISM,
OPPRESSION AND VIOLENCE.
HIS 1986 NOBEL CITATION CALLED
HIM "A MESSENGER TO MANKIND."
ACCEPTING HIS PRIZE, WIESEL
SAID, "SILENCE ENCOURAGES THE
TORMENTOR, NEVER THE TORMENTED."
THREE YEARS AGO, HE SPOKE AT THE
20th ANNIVERSARY OF THE OPENING
OF THE HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM
IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
>> OUR MEMORY WILL LIVE IN
YOURS.
REMEMBER THAT, YOUNG PEOPLE,
THAT NOW YOU HAVE AN IDEAL-- NOT
ONLY AN IDEA, BUT IDEAL-- THE
IDEAL OF SAVING WHATEVER THE
PAST HAS TO OFFER FOR THE
FUTURE, AND ITS HEROES AND ALSO
ITS VICTIMS.
>> Sreenivasan: ELIE WIESEL DIED
TODAY IN HIS HOME IN MANHATTAN.
HE WAS 87 YEARS OLD.
WE'LL HAVE MORE IN A MOMENT.
FOR THE SECOND TIME THIS WEEK,
TERRORISTS BELONGING TO THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP ISIS HAVE
CARRIED OUT A LETHAL ATTACK ON
CIVILIANS OVERSEAS.
ON TUESDAY, ISIS OPERATIVES
ARMED WITH MACHINE GUNS AND
BOMBS STRUCK ONE OF THE WORLD'S
BUSIEST AIRPORTS IN ISTANBUL,
TURKEY, AND KILLED MORE THAN
40 PEOPLE.
ON FRIDAY, ISIS TERRORISTS
ATTACKED A RESTAURANT IN ONE OF
THE WORLD'S MOST POPULOUS
CITIES-- DHAKA, THE CAPITAL OF
BANGLADESH.
THOUGH IT'S 8,000 MILES FROM THE
U.S., THREE VICTIMS WERE
ENROLLED AT U.S. COLLEGES, AND
ONE WAS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN FROM
FLORIDA.
EARLY THIS MORNING, ABOUT 100
BANGLADESHI SECURITY FORCES
ENDED THE SIEGE AND RESCUED 13
PEOPLE WHO HAD BEEN HELD HOSTAGE
FOR TEN HOURS.
SECURITY FORCES KILLED SIX OF
THE ATTACKERS AND ARRESTED ONE.
HOWEVER, THAT WAS ONLY AFTER THE
TERRORISTS ARMED WITH GUNS AND
MACHETES KILLED 20 PEOPLE EATING
AT THE UPSCALE RESTAURANT, WHICH
WAS POPULAR WITH FOREIGNERS.
NINE VICTIMS WERE FROM ITALY,
AND SEVEN WERE FROM JAPAN.
ONE VICTIM, FROM INDIA, WAS AN
18-YEAR-OLD STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-
BERKELEY.
SHE HAD BEEN VISITING HER FATHER
IN BANGLADESH.
TWO STUDENTS KILLED WERE
ENROLLED AT EMORY UNIVERSITY.
ONE OF THEM WAS A JUNIOR FROM
DHAKA.
THE OTHER, ABINTA KABIR, WAS
FROM MIAMI AND ABOUT TO BEGIN
HER SOPHOMORE YEAR.
TWO BANGLADESHI POLICE OFFICERS
WERE SHOT AND KILLED IN THE
STANDOFF.
THE RESTAURANT IS IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD FILLED WITH
EMBASSIES.
THE U.S. EMBASSY IS JUST A MILE
AWAY.
IN ITS CLAIM OF RESPONSIBILITY,
ISIS SAID IT HAD TARGETED
CITIZENS OF "CRUSADER
COUNTRIES."
SURVIVORS SAY THE ATTACKERS
SHOUTED "ALLAHU AKBAR," THE
ARABIC PHRASE FOR "GOD IS
GREAT," AND SPARED HOSTAGES WHO
COULD RECITE VERSES FROM THE
KORAN.
IN A TELEVISED ADDRESS, THE
PRIME MINISTER OF BANGLADESH
CALLED THE ATTACK BARBARIC AND
SAID HER GOVERNMENT WOULD ALWAYS
FIGHT ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS ON HER
SOIL.
>> (translated): THEY DON'T
HAVE A RELIGION.
TERRORISM IS THEIR RELIGION,
THAT'S WHAT I BELIEVE.
THE PEOPLE OF BANGLADESH WILL
ALWAYS FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM.
I WILL ALWAYS TELL THE PEOPLE TO
STAND AGAINST TERRORISM.
AND IF THEY DO, THEN TERRORISM
WILL NEVER BE SUCCESSFUL IN
BANGLADESH.
>> Sreenivasan: IN RECENT
MONTHS, ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS IN
BANGLADESH HAVE MURDERED ABOUT
TWO DOZEN PEOPLE-- ATHEIST
BLOGGERS, GAY ACTIVISTS, AID
WORKERS AND RELIGIOUS
MINORITIES, INCLUDING A HINDU
PRIEST KILLED YESTERDAY.
IN GREAT BRITAIN TODAY, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PROTESTERS MARCHED
THROUGH THE STREETS OF LONDON,
CALLING ON PARLIAMENT TO
IGNORE THE JUNE 23rd REFERENDUM
IN FAVOR OF THE UNITED KINGDOM
LEAVING THE EUROPEAN UNION.
MOST OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN THE
"MARCH FOR EUROPE" WERE YOUNG
ADULTS, A DEMOGRAPHIC THAT
OVERWHELMINGLY VOTED TO STAY IN
THE 28-NATION E.U., AS DID THE
CITY OF LONDON.
TURNING TO THE RACE FOR THE
WHITE HOUSE TODAY, THE F.B.I.
INTERVIEWED PRESUMED DEMOCRATIC
NOMINEE HILLARY CLINTON FOR MORE
THAN 3.5 HOURS ABOUT THE PRIVATE
EMAIL SERVER SHE USED WHILE
SECRETARY OF STATE DURING
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
SPOKESPERSON NICK MERRILL SAID
CLINTON MET WITH THE F.B.I.
VOLUNTARILY AND "SHE IS PLEASED
TO HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ASSIST THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
IN BRINGING THIS REVIEW TO A
CONCLUSION."
MERRILL ADDED, "OUT OF RESPECT
FOR THE INVESTIGATIVE PROCESS,
SHE WILL NOT COMMENT FURTHER ON
HER INTERVIEW."
THE CAMPAIGN ALSO SAID TODAY
CLINTON AND OBAMA WILL MAKE
THEIR FIRST JOINT 2016
APPEARANCE IN CHARLOTTE, NORTH
CAROLINA, ON TUESDAY.
DONALD TRUMP SAID TODAY HE WILL
ANNOUNCE THE SCHEDULE OF
SPEAKERS AT THIS MONTH'S
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION,
ON WEDNESDAY.
THE CONVENTION STARTS JULY 18th.
CALIFORNIA IS ENACTING NEW GUN
CONTROL LAWS THAT FOCUS AS MUCH
ON AMMUNITION AS GUNS.
THE LAWS SIGNED YESTERDAY BY
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN REQUIRE
BACKGROUND CHECKS TO BUY
AMMUNITION IN CALIFORNIA;
BAN THE SALE OF HIGH CAPACITY
MAGAZINES THAT HOLD MORE THAN
TEN BULLETS AND REQUIRE OWNERS
OF SUCH MAGAZINES TO TURN THEM
IN; AND BAN THE SALE OF SEMI-
AUTOMATIC WEAPONS WITH "BULLET
BUTTONS," A FEATURE THAT ALLOWS
SHOOTERS TO RAPIDLY RELOAD
MAGAZINES.
THE LAWS TAKE EFFECT NEXT
JANUARY.
CALIFORNIA LEGISLATORS BEGAN
WORKING ON THEM AFTER THE MASS
SHOOTING IN SAN BERNADINO LAST
DECEMBER.
THE STATE ALREADY BANS THE SALE
OF MILITARY-STYLE ASSAULT
WEAPONS.
THERE WILL BE MORE RESTRICTIVE
GUN MEASURES ON THE NOVEMBER
BALLOT.
>> Sreenivasan: AS WE REPORTED
AT THE START OF THE PROGRAM,
ELIE WIESEL, THE NOBEL LAUREATE
WHO SPENT DECADES TEACHING
TOLERANCE AND WORKING TO
PRESERVE THE MEMORY OF HOLOCAUST
VICTIMS, DIED TODAY.
JOINING ME NOW ON THE PHONE TO
DISCUSS HIS LIFE IS SARA
BLOOMFIELD, THE DIRECTOR OF THE
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM IN
WASHINGTON.
SARA, ONE OF THE THINGS MOST
PEOPLE MIGHT NOT KNOW BESIDES
THE FACT HE WAS AN AUTHOR AND
WROTE THE BOOK PROBABLY ALL OF
US GREW UP WITH IS THE FORCE HE
WAS TO GET THE HOLOCAUST
MEMORIAL MUSEUM EVEN UNDER WAY.
>> YES, I THINK HE WAS THE
GUIDING MORAL FORCE FOR THE
MUSEUM, AND, IN FACT, I THINK HE
IS THE LEADER OF THE WHOLE
HOLOCAUST MEMORY MOVEMENT, WHICH
HAS NOW BECOME A GLOBAL
MOVEMENT.
AND IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE IT
WITHOUT ELIE'S SINGULAR MORAL
VOICE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE YOU
GOING TO MISS MOST ABOUT HIM?
I MEAN, THIS IS SOMEONE YOU
WORKED WITH.
>> YES, I WORKED VERY CLOSELY
WITH ELIE OVER THE YEARS.
HE WAS A REMARKABLE PERSON AND
INCREDIBLY MODEST, GIVEN HIS
ENORMOUS ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
YOU KNOW, WE THINK OF HIM AS A
GREAT ADVOCATE, WRITER, THINKER,
HUMAN RIGHTS LEADER, BUT I THINK
ELIE WOULD WANT TO BE KNOWN MOST
FOR BEING A TEACHER.
HE LOVED TEACHING.
I THINK HE THOUGHT OF HIS
WRITING AS A FORM OF TEACHING.
HE LOVED BEING WITH YOUNG
PEOPLE.
AND, OF COURSE, THE MUSEUM
ITSELF IS A GREAT TEACHING
INSTITUTION.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
THINGS PEOPLE MIGHT NOT
RECOGNIZE IS HIS SCOPE WAS NOT
LIMITED SPECIFICALLY TO THE
HOLOCAUST.
HE ADVOCATED FOR INTERVENTION IN
DARFUR MOST RECENTLY AND ON
BEHALF OF BOSNIANS, ON BEHALF OF
PEOPLE SUFFERING UNDER
APARTHEID.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW, HE ALWAYS SAID HE
DIDN'T WANT ANYBODY'S FUTURE TO
BE LIKE HIS PAST, AND AT THE
DEDICATION OF THE MUSEUM IN
1993, HE WAS SPEAKING ABOUT HIS
OWN MOTHER'S LIFE AND DEATH AND
TURNED TO CLINTON, THE
NEWLY-ELECTED PRESIDENT CLINTON
AND CHALLENGED HIM TO CONFRONT
ETHNIC CLEANSING IN BOSNIA.
HE HAD A LOT OF MORAL COURAGE
AND WAS NEVER AFRAID TO SPEAK
TRUTH TO POWER.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
SOMETHING YOU REMEMBER ABOUT HIM
THAT STANDS OUT?
>> I THINK ELIE, I WOULD SAY FOR
ALL HIS WORK AND ALL HIS
EFFORTS, THAT EVEN AT THE END,
THERE WAS A SADNESS ABOUT HIM
THAT THE WORLD HAD NOT LEARNED
THE LESSONS OF THE HOLOCAUST.
HE WOULD NEVER GIVE UP.
HE BELIEVED IN ALWAYS TRYING AND
THE ASPIRATION, AND THAT'S WHAT
THE MUSEUM STANDS FOR.
BUT I THINK HE HAD HOPED THERE
WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER PROGRESS
IN THE WORLD BY NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SARA
BLOOMFIELD, DIRECTOR TO HAVE THE
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM IN
WASHINGTON JOINING US BY PHONE
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND SORRY FOR
YOUR LOSS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THE PAST TWO
WEEKS, IN NORTHERN ITALY, A LAKE
HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED SO VISITORS
CAN WALK ON WATER.
THE FANCIFUL PUBLIC INSTALLATION
COMES COURTESY OF THE RENOWNED
CONCEPTUAL ARTIST CHRISTO, WHO,
FOR DECADES, HAS BEEN PLACING
FABRIC AROUND STRUCTURES TO
CHANGE PERCEPTIONS OF OUR
SURROUNDINGS.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
CHRISTOPHER LIVESAY TAKES US TO
CHRISTO'S LATEST SPECTACLE, THE
FLOATING PIERS.
>> Reporter: SOMETHING
EXTRAORDINARY HAS DRAWN
THOUSANDS OF TOURISTS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD TO THIS
NORMALLY PEACEFUL LAKE IN
NORTHERN ITALY-- LAKE ISEO,
60 MILES EAST OF MILAN.
IT'S CALLED THE FLOATING PIERS--
NEARLY TWO MILES OF SAFFRON-
COLORED, FLOATING WALKWAYS
CONNECTING THE MAINLAND TO TWO
ISLANDS USUALLY ACCESSIBLE ONLY
BY BOAT.
THE PIERS UNDULATE WITH THE
WAVES AND THE FEET OF SOME
65,000 VISITORS A DAY.
>> SO SOFT!
>> Reporter: THESE COLLEGE
STUDENTS ARE FROM UTAH.
>> IT EXCEEDS EXPECTATIONS.
>> YEAH, IT WAS A LONG JOURNEY
OUT HERE, BUT IT'S DEFINITELY
WORTH IT.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S IT FEEL
LIKE, WALKING BAREFOOT ON THIS
ARTWORK?
>> IT FEELS SURREAL.
LIKE, IT'S UNREAL.
>> THE WAY IT MOVES.
>> IT FEELS LIKE YOU'RE
FLOATING.
YOU ARE FLOATING, I GUESS!
>> Reporter: THE INSTALLATION
APPEALS TO BOTH YOUNG AND OLD.
A CHANCE FOR PHOTOS, AND JUST
CHILLING OUT.
>> IT'S... IT'S COOL!
>> Reporter: CHIJI IS FROM
CALIFORNIA.
A LOT OF PEOPLE WOULDN'T EVEN
CONSIDER SOMETHING LIKE THIS
ART.
>> I THINK THIS IS DEFINITELY
FOR SOMEONE TO THINK OF WHAT IT
TAKES TO MAKE THIS COME TO LIFE,
THAT DEFINITELY TAKES A TYPE OF
CREATIVITY AND IMAGINATION.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE LATEST
CREATION BY CHRISTO, THE
BULGARIAN-BORN CONCEPTUAL ARTIST
FAMOUS FOR GIANT OUTDOOR
INSTALLATIONS.
HE WRAPPED ISLANDS IN MIAMI'S
BISCAYNE BAY IN PINK FABRIC;
PARIS' OLDEST BRIDGE, THE PONT
NEUF, IN IVORY FABRIC; AND
BERLIN'S PARLIAMENT, THE
REICHSTAG, IN SILVER.
HIS LAST MAJOR PROJECT, THE
GATES-- MORE THAN 7,000 OF
THEM-- DOTTED NEW YORK CITY'S
CENTRAL PARK BACK IN 2005.
A FEW DAYS BEFORE THE FLOATING
PIERS WERE FINISHED, I SET OFF
TO MEET THE ARTIST.
CHRISTO!
I'M CHRIS.
BEFORE WE STARTED DISCUSSING THE
PROJECT, CHRISTO WAS EAGER TO
STIR THINGS UP, TO SHOW HIS
PIERS WERE SAFE EVEN WITH WAVES.
>> SEE THE WAVES!
>> Reporter: I HAD TO ASK THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION.
AREN'T YOU AFRAID OF PEOPLE
FALLING IN?
>> NO!
THERE IS NO BANISTER.
>> Reporter: AH, THERE IS NO
BANISTER, YES.
>> THAT IS THE GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PERMITTING
PROCESS.
>> Reporter: A PROCESS THAT
USUALLY TAKES YEARS OR EVEN
DECADES.
MIRACULOUSLY, THE PIERS CAME
TOGETHER IN 22 MONTHS.
>> YES, AND WE WALK.
THE PROJECT IS ABOUT WALKING,
YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: SURE.
A BUNDLE OF ENERGY AT 81 YEARS
OLD, CHRISTO REFUSED TO SIT FOR
OUR INTERVIEW.
THE PIERS ARE 53 FEET WIDE AND
ABOUT A FOOT HIGH AND MADE FROM
MORE THAN 200,000 INTERLOCKING
PLASTIC CUBES.
CHRISTO INSISTS HIS STRUCTURE IS
ONLY PART OF THE ART.
>> EVERYTHING HERE.
THE WORK OF ART IS NOT THE
PIERS.
THE WORK OF ART IS ALSO THE
MOUNTAINS, THE WATER, THE
HOUSES, ALL THE WAVES.
ALL THAT TOGETHER IS THE WORK OF
ART.
>> Reporter: THE WHOLE THING?
>> YES, EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: WHILE THEY MAY LOOK
SIMPLE, CHRISTO'S PROJECTS ARE
COMPLEX-- IN THIS CASE,
INVOLVING ENGINEERS, HELICOPTERS
AND EVEN SCUBA DIVERS.
THE PROCESS STARTS WITH
PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE LOCATION BY
WOLFGANG VOLZ, WHO HAS WORKED
WITH HIM FOR 46 YEARS.
CHRISTO SKETCHES THE DESIGN OVER
THE PHOTOS TO MAKE A KIND OF
BLUEPRINT.
>> NOW, IT'S THIS FANTASTIC
MOMENT WHEN THE PROJECT IS
FINISHED AND REALIZED, AND YOU
LOOK AT IT AND YOU SAY, "WELL,
IT LOOKS JUST LIKE THE DRAWINGS,
HOWEVER A LITTLE BIT BETTER."
>> Reporter: CHRISTO'S TEAM
IDENTIFIES SUITABLE MATERIALS,
AND ALMOST EVERYTHING IS
MANUFACTURED FROM SCRATCH.
ON LAKE ISEO, HIS TEAM TOOK FIVE
MONTHS TO SET THE CUBES IN
PLACE, FILLING THOSE NEAR THE
EDGES WITH WATER TO CREATE THE
PIER'S SLOPING EFFECT.
WE WATCHED THE FINISHING
TOUCHES-- 3.5 MILLION CUBIC FEET
OF MADE-TO-ORDER FABRIC BEING
LAID OVER THE PIERS AND THE
STREETS LEADING TO THE WATER'S
EDGE.
THE BUDGET FOR ALL OF THIS--
$19.5 MILLION-- IS PAID FOR
ENTIRELY BY CHRISTO FROM THE
SALE OF HIS ART.
LIKE HIS PREVIOUS MONUMENTAL
WORKS, THE FLOATING PIERS ARE
TEMPORARY.
THEY WILL BE OPEN ONLY 16 DAYS
AND THEN DISMANTLED.
THE MATERIALS, RECYCLED.
AND THAT'S PART OF THE POINT.
>> PEOPLE COME TO BE PRESENT FOR
SOMETHING EXISTS ONCE IN A
LIFETIME AND NEVER AGAIN.
>> Reporter: IS IT ART OR IS IT
SPECTACLE?
>> NO, IT'S THE PHYSICAL ART,
FIRST THING.
YOU SHOULD ALSO PUT IN MIND ALL
OUR PROJECTS GAVE UNIQUE IMAGE
FROM THE CONCEPT TO TODAY IS A
WORK OF ART.
WE PUT TOGETHER ENORMOUS
INTELLIGENCE OF PEOPLE,
ENGINEERS.
TO DISCOVER MYSELF HOW THE
PROJECT WILL LOOK IS INCREDIBLE
JOY.
>> Reporter: TEMPERING THAT
JOY, THIS IS THE FIRST MAJOR
PROJECT CHRISTO HAS COMPLETED
WITHOUT HIS WIFE, JEANNE CLAUDE,
WHO DIED IN 2009.
PHOTOGRAPHER WOLFGANG VOLZ SAYS
SHE IS MISSED.
>> IF WE HAVE A BIG PROBLEM, WE
ALWAYS SAY, "WHAT WOULD JEANNE
CLAUDE HAVE DONE TO FIX IT, IF
IT WERE CATASTROPHE OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?"
(LAUGHS)
YOU DEAL WITH PERMANENT DANGER
OF CATASTROPHE.
>> Reporter: WHILE THERE HAVEN'T
BEEN ANY CATASTROPHES, THE
FLOATING PIERS HAVE POSED SOME
UNEXPECTED CHALLENGES.
RAIN AND WIND FORCE PARTS OF THE
PIERS TO CLOSE AT TIMES.
MONITORS LIKE THIS WOMAN--
INSTRUCTED TO KEEP BABY
STROLLERS OFF THE OUTER PIER
BECAUSE OF THE WIND-- FACE
ARGUMENTS FROM UPSET MOMS.
WEAR AND TEAR FROM THE MUCH
LARGER THAN EXPECTED CROWDS ALSO
CAUSE THE PIERS TO OCCASIONALLY
CLOSE AT NIGHT FOR MAINTENANCE
AND REPAIRS.
>> BRAVO!
>> Reporter: BUT ALL IN ALL, AS
CHRISTO PASSED BY ON HIS BOAT,
VISITORS HAVE CHEERED THE
FLOATING PIERS AS A SUCCESS.
AND CHRISTO IS NOW LOOKING AHEAD
TO TWO MORE LARGE SCALE
PROJECTS: A PYRAMID-LIKE
STRUCTURE IN THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES; AND A CURTAIN OF
FABRIC OVER THE ARKANSAS RIVER
IN THE U.S., WHICH HAS BEEN HIS
HOME SINCE THE 1960s.
YOU JUST TURNED 81 YEARS OLD.
>> YES.
>> Reporter: WHEN I ASKED IF HE
WOULD EVER SLOW DOWN, CHRISTO
QUOTED SOMETHING HIS WIFE USED
TO SAY.
>> "THE ARTIST DOES NOT RETIRE.
THEY SIMPLY DIE."
(LAUGHS)
AND THIS IS WHY ART IS NOT A
BUSINESS; IT'S THE EXISTENCE.
>> Reporter: ON MONDAY, THE
EXISTENCE OF THE FLOATING PIERS
WILL START TO END.
DOES IT EVER MAKE YOU SAD TO SEE
THE PROJECT TAKEN DOWN?
>> NO, NO.
>> Reporter: YOU LIKE TO MOVE
ON?
>> TO MOVE ON, LIKE OUR LIFE.
>> Reporter: A LIFE SPENT
CREATING ART THAT IS FLEETING,
MEANT TO BE SAVORED IN THE
MOMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: LEARN ABOUT THE
TRAVELING CLOWN TROUPE
PERFORMING FOR SYRIAN REFUGEES.
VISIT US ONLINE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
SINCE AMERICA DECLARED ITS
INDEPENDENCE THIS WEEKEND 240
YEARS AGO, THE NATION'S
POPULATION GROWTH AND DIVERSITY
HAS BEEN FUELED BY IMMIGRATION.
THAT CONTINUES TO BE TRUE NOT
ONLY FOR OUR BIG CITIES, BUT
ALSO IN RURAL AMERICA.
TAKE SOUTH DAKOTA, A RURAL STATE
THAT'S 85% WHITE WITH SMALL
PERCENTAGES OF NATIVE AMERICAN,
BLACK, LATINO AND ASIAN
RESIDENTS.
THE DEMOGRAPHICS IN SOME TOWNS
ARE CHANGING DUE TO A NEW WAVE
OF IMMIGRATION AND WITH
CONSEQUENCES FOR LOCAL
ECONOMIES, AS THE NEWSHOUR'S
CHRISTOPHER BOOKER LEARNED ON A
RECENT TRIP TO THE STATE.
>> Reporter: AT DAKOTA
PROVISIONS, A TURKEY PROCESSING
PLANT IN HURON, SOUTH DAKOTA,
WORKER NYO MAUNG TAKES ONLY A
SECOND-AND-A-HALF TO REMOVE THE
TAIL OF A TURKEY.
WITH HIS ELECTRIC KNIFE, HE
COMPLETES 40 CUTS A MINUTE AND
2,400 EVERY HOUR.
HURON IS A SMALL CITY OF 13,000
RESIDENTS, HALFWAY BETWEEN SIOUX
FALLS AND THE STATE CAPITOL,
PIERRE.
MORE THAN 40 TURKEY FARMS SUPPLY
THE PLANT, WHICH DISTRIBUTES
MEAT ALL OVER THE U.S.
IT RUNS LIKE AN AUTO FACTORY
ASSEMBLY LINE, WITH ABOUT 1,000
WORKERS PROCESSING 20,000
TURKEYS A DAY.
THAT ADDS UP TO 200 MILLION
POUNDS OF TURKEY MEAT A YEAR.
AND NO ONE IS FASTER WITH HIS
BLADE THAN NYO MAUNG.
>> HE CUTS THE TAILS OFF THE
TURKEYS WITH A WIZARD KNIFE.
>> Reporter: MARK "SMOKEY"
HEUSTON IS THE COMPANY'S HUMAN
RESOURCES DIRECTOR.
THE FOREMAN WAS SAYING THAT
THEY'VE ACTUALLY NOTICED WHEN
HE'S ON VACATION, THE
PRODUCTIVITY LEVELS GO DOWN, THE
YIELDS GO DOWN.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> Reporter: ON AVERAGE, FLOOR
WORKERS LIKE NYO MAUNG MAKE
AROUND $13 AN HOUR.
SINCE THE PLANT OPENED IN 2005,
IT'S BEEN A CONSTANT STRUGGLE TO
FIND AND RETAIN ENOUGH PEOPLE
FROM SOUTH DAKOTA WILLING TO
WORK IN MEATPACKING.
IMMIGRANTS HELP FILL THE GAP.
>> WE'RE ABLE TO KEEP OUR
TURNOVER DOWN TO THE 15% TO 20%
A YEAR RANGE, WHICH IS FOUR OR
FIVE TIMES LESS THAN THE
NATIONAL AVERAGE FOR THE
MEATPACKING PLANTS.
>> Reporter: LIKE NYO MAUNG,
MOST WORKERS HERE ARE "KAREN,"
AN ETHNIC MINORITY FROM MYANMAR,
FORMERLY KNOWN AS BURMA.
BETWEEN 2005 AND 2014, A U.S.
RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM ADMITTED
73,000 REFUGEES FROM MYANMAR,
LONG GOVERNED BY A MILITARY
DICTATORSHIP UNTIL LAST YEAR.
HEUSTON BEGAN RECRUITING THE
REFUGEES IN 2007 WHEN, DURING A
TRIP TO ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA, A
MAGNET FOR REFUGEES FROM
MYANMAR, HE MET A SMALL GROUP OF
KAREN PEOPLE WILLING TO MOVE TO
HURON.
NINE YEARS LATER, THROUGH WORD
OF MOUTH AND FAMILY TIES, WHAT
STARTED WITH THREE HAS EXPANDED
TO MORE THAN 600 KAREN WORKERS.
>> WITHOUT THE KAREN PEOPLE, WE
PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO
RUN THE TURKEY PLANT.
>> Reporter: WHY NOT?
>> PEOPLE JUST DON'T WANT TO
MOVE TO RURAL AMERICA.
THE LOCAL YOUNG PEOPLE ARE GOING
OUT TO SEE THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
THE KAREN PEOPLE HAVE SEEN THE
REST OF THE WORLD, AND THEY'VE
HAD ENOUGH OF THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
THE KAREN COME HERE FOR EXACTLY
THE SAME REASONS THAT OUR
ANCESTORS CAME HERE, AND THAT'S
TO BE FREE.
>> Reporter: NYO MAUNG ARRIVED
HERE IN 2012.
WHY DID YOU DECIDE TO MOVE TO
HURON AS OPPOSED TO ST. PAUL OR
INDIANA OR ANOTHER PLACE IN THE
UNITED STATES?
WHY HURON?
>> (translated): THE REASON
THAT I CHOSE HURON IS BECAUSE MY
RELATIVES LIVE HERE.
ONE OF MY RELATIVES OR SIBLINGS,
THEY ARRIVED HERE BEFORE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE KAREN ARE
ONLY PART OF THE STORY.
ROUGHLY 16% OF THE PLANT'S
WORKFORCE IS FROM LATIN AMERICA.
THE PLANT'S DIVERSITY HAS
TRANSFORMED HURON AND
SURROUNDING BEADLE COUNTY,
BRINGING THE CITY'S POPULATION
BACK UP TO NUMBERS NOT SEEN
SINCE 1980 WHILE REDUCING THE
MEDIAN AGE BY FIVE YEARS.
>> WE WERE MAYBE ONE OF THE
PIONEERS IN OUR AREA TO EMBRACE
SOME OF THE IMMIGRATION.
>> Reporter: BROOKE SYDOW IS
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF
HURON.
>> WE WANT TO SEE SOUTH DAKOTA
GROW, AND WE... WE'RE NOT SEEING
THE TRADITIONAL WHITE MIDDLE-
CLASS AMERICAN COME BACK TO A
RURAL PLACE.
IT'S JUST NOT HAPPENING.
AND SO, WE'RE EMBRACING
WHATEVER'S COMING OUR WAY.
VERSUS TRYING TO BAR UP AND SAY,
"WE CAN'T HELP YOU," LET'S SAY,
"OKAY, COME HERE, HOW CAN WE
HELP YOU?"
>> Reporter: WITH 46% OF THE
K-12 STUDENTS BEING OF ASIAN OR
LATINO DECENT, "HELPING" MEANS
EXPANDING THE SCHOOL'S ENGLISH
AS A SECOND LANGUAGE PROGRAM AND
HIRING A CERTIFIED E.S.L.
INSTRUCTOR FOR EVERY GRADE.
THEY ALSO ADDED MORE PLOTS TO
THIS COMMUNITY GARDEN, BELIEVING
THE SPACE WOULD ALLOW NEW AND
OLD RESIDENTS TO GET TO KNOW ONE
ANOTHER.
AND THE CITY ALSO HELPS NEW
ARRIVALS WITH HOUSING NEEDS.
WITH THE HELP OF HURON'S JAMES
VALLEY HOUSING GROUP AND THE
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, NYO
MAUNG WAS ABLE TO BUY THIS
$137,000, FOUR-BEDROOM HOUSE
WITH NO MONEY DOWN.
YOU HAVE DECIDED TO STAY IN
HURON?
>> (translated): FOREVER.
ALWAYS.
THE REST OF MY LIFE, I WILL NOT
GO TO ANY OTHER PLACES.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE ELSE TO GO.
I'LL STAY HERE.
>> WE'VE ALWAYS BEEN A WORKING-
CLASS COMMUNITY, AND THERE'S
ALWAYS BEEN DIFFERENT GROUPS OF
PEOPLE THAT HAVE COME THROUGH
AND KIND OF LIVED AND WORKED IN
THE COMMUNITY.
AND WITH THE KAREN POPULATION,
THEY FIT IN REALLY WELL WITHIN
OUR COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE A HUGE FAMILY-BASED
ORIENTATION.
THEY'RE FAMILY-BASED, WE'RE
FAMILY-BASED.
SO, IT'S BEEN A GOOD FIT.
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH THERE
WERE SOME MINOR CULTURE CLASHES
AT FIRST.
MARK HEUSTON TELLS A STORY ABOUT
A KAREN FAMILY RAISING A FEW
EYEBROWS AFTER THEY STARTED
LAYING FISH OUT TO DRY IN
THEIR NEIGHBOR'S BACKYARD.
SYDOW SAYS THE TOWN IS MORE THAN
WILLING TO DO WHAT IS NEEDED TO
MAKE IMMIGRANTS FEEL WELCOME.
>> IF THAT MEANS PUTTING UP
ANOTHER RESTAURANT, OR IF THAT
MEANS CHANGING THE E.S.L.
PROGRAM, OR TRYING TO HELP WITH
COMMUNITY INTEGRATION, THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO.
>> Reporter: YOU GUYS ARE OPEN
FOR BUSINESS?
>> WE'RE OPEN FOR BUSINESS, AND
THAT'S WHAT SETS US APART
FROM... FROM OTHER COMMUNITIES.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: A STRETCH OF
FLORIDA BEACHES ARE SHUT DOWN
DUE TO A MASSIVE ALGAE BLOOM.
THE THICK, SMELLY, GREEN ALGAE
STARTED CONCENTRATING LAST WEEK
WHERE THE SAINT LUCIE RIVER
MEETS THE ATLANTIC OCEAN, ABOUT
100 MILES NORTH OF MIAMI.
ONE LOCAL RESIDENT DESCRIBED THE
SMELL OF THE ALGAE BLOOM AS IF
100 DEAD ANIMALS LAID IN THE
STREET FOR A WEEK.
THE SOURCE OF THE BLOOM IS WATER
FROM 35 MILES AWAY IN FLORIDA'S
LARGEST LAKE, LAKE OKEECHOBEE,
WHICH IS POLLUTED BY RUNOFF FROM
AGRICULTURAL AREAS.
THE ARMY CORP OF ENGINEERS HAS
STARTED REDUCING THE FLOW OF
LAKE WATER TO THE RIVER; THE
CORP RELEASES WATER AS PART OF
ITS FLOOD CONTROL.
TONIGHT MARKS THE END OF AN ERA
FOR PUBLIC RADIO.
GARRISON KEILLOR AIRS HIS FINAL
BROADCAST OF "PRAIRIE HOME
COMPANION," ENDING A 42-YEAR
RUN.
KEILLOR AND HIS SUPPORTING CAST
RECORDED THEIR FINAL PERFORMANCE
BEFORE 18,000 FANS AT THE
HOLLYWOOD BOWL IN LOS ANGELES
LAST NIGHT.
>>  IT'S SATURDAY AND THE BAND
IS PLAYING
HONEY COULD WE ASK
FOR MORE?
COMING TO YOU LIVE FROM THE
HOLLYWOOD BOWL.
>> Sreenivasan: SINCE 1974,
KEILLOR'S OLD-FASHIONED VARIETY
SHOW HAS FEATURED A MIX OF
STORYTELLING, SKETCHES, MUSIC
AND HIS TRADEMARK "NEWS FROM
LAKE WOBEGON."
IT REACHES A WEEKLY AUDIENCE OF
MORE THAN THREE MILLION
LISTENERS.
IN 2014, THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY
BROWN INTERVIEWED KEILLOR ABOUT
THE SHOW'S 40th ANNIVERSARY.
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU EVER
STOPPED TO THINK ABOUT WHY IT
WORKED SO LONG AND WHY,
ESPECIALLY, THE MEDIUM OF RADIO?
>> I THINK THERE'S... THERE'S A
LOT OF POWER IN LISTENING TO ONE
PERSON TALKING TO YOU.
AND... AND THIS SHOULD NEVER BE
UNDERESTIMATED.
>> Sreenivasan: "PRAIRIE HOME
COMPANION" WILL RESUME IN THE
FALL WITH A NEW HOST-- MANDOLIN
PLAYER CHRIS THILE-- AND AN
UPDATED FORMAT.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, HILLARY
CLINTON SPOKE TO NBC NEWS LATE
THIS AFTERNOON, FOLLOWING HER
F.B.I. INTERVIEW ABOUT USING A
PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER WHILE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
CLINTON SAID, AS SHE HAS BEFORE,
THAT SHE "NEVER RECEIVED OR
SENT MATERIAL THAT WAS MARKED
CLASSIFIED."
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.